That's my introduction, and we're talking to Mrs. Graham.
Congratulations on a really, I have to tell you, an absolutely wonderful memoir.
Thank you so much.
It's much more than a memoir, isn't it?
No, I don't.
Well, I suppose it's a little bit of... I guess that's one way to enter the conversation, actually.
It may be part of the memoir, I would say, is the history of the times, and I don't mean that.
New York Times, I mean the Times that we lived in, which were very different.
And part of it is the history of the Washington Post development.
Part of it is the history of my family.
Do you distinguish yourself between an autobiography and a memoir?
I do.
Whenever anybody was asking me what I wrote with writing, I always said memoirs, and they said, what's the difference?
And I said, to me, the difference is you can tell what you want.
And an autobiography, you feel impelled to tell everything.
I mean, if it's going to be an accurate autobiography.
And it seems like I did almost tell everything, but not quite, I guess.
Well, I think that you were
discreetly selective in areas which seems appropriate.
And I wonder, did you wrestle with certain areas?
Sure.
I'm difficult about how much to tell about my husband's illness.
Once you told people that he had an manic depression and it was untreated, did you
should you go into the details which were tough on him and maybe that would bother the children.
I talked to my editor about this, and he said, if you don't tell what happened and about his peculiar behavior, people don't understand that manic depression is very severe
At the very end of it, he really was out of his mind, because they could view it as just that he was kind of a no-good rock.
So he said, unless you put in what he was doing, people will not understand that that wasn't him.
I think the quotation from President Kennedy pretty much emphasized that, doesn't it?
It does.
He recognized it.
instantly, that this is not the person I know.
Yeah, that's very good.
Yeah, I think.
I read the book almost as an unlayering of yourself, you know, which I have to feel is probably the most painful thing a person can do.
Did you feel that you were exposing yourself to the world in a way?
You know, I should have felt it, but I didn't really in some
weird way because it took me so long to write it and I was writing it so privately that at some point I think I was just putting down what I thought had happened.
I perhaps never visualized this moment when it would actually become a book.
It was going so slowly I wasn't even sure.
that it would ever become a book.
So I was thinking about what happened and trying to be accurate.
So there were actually, I hesitate to use the word misgivings, but apprehensions along the way that maybe this wasn't going to be a book?
Well, I had to wonder if we were ever going to get to the point where we could publish it.
We were at it for six and a half years.
I was not a writer.
You could fool me, I have to tell you.
Well, I had some very distinguished editorial help, I have to tell you.
Ev Smalls in Bakerville was my researcher, and she became much more than a researcher.
She was wonderful at shaping chapters and putting things together, some of which were scattered all over.
And then we both had a superb editor, Bob Cockney.
No, Mr. Gottlieb stuck with it even after .
No, you see, actually what happened was he'd just come out of The New Yorker when I was beginning and I'd written a few chapters.
And I gave them to Bob and said, do you think I can write this?
And if not, we have to get a writer in right now.
And he was wonderful.
He said, yes, you can write it.
And then he was a line editor and a word editor all the way through, I guess, the last four years or whenever it was that he left the New York.
Did you, I won't use the word fight, but did you have any conflict at all over material that you felt should be in, or that he felt should be in, or material?
You do mention at some point that, you know, I think the original manuscript was twice as long as
That may be an exaggeration.
But certainly there's a lot of material that didn't make it between the hard covers, I guess.
Sure.
No, we didn't fight.
Occasionally, because I really had such confidence in him as an editor, that if he said something had to go, because he would say, I put in, for instance,
A terribly moving interview that we did with Lady Bird Johnson, and the reason I put it in was because she was describing a train trip.
It was a women's train trip through the South.
It was her daughters and Liz Carpenter and some other women who were with her.
And then she met the president in New Orleans, and I'd been on the president's press play.
And so I went to the station to see them come in, and I saw them, and then I went to hear him give a civil rights speech.
So I was part of all that particular scene.
And when I interviewed Lady Bird, she described the trip and said how appalled she was that because of his civil rights position that people in her South spat on her.
shut shutters as they came down the street.
I mean, I was terribly moved by this and wanted to put it in.
And that's just an example that Bob said, that's her story, not yours.
And, you know, I could see the point instantly.
And so it's there for somebody else to use.
And that almost is a rule that I guess that you could apply throughout the process of writing this book, is that
You know, certain stories are mine, and other stories are in the province of these other people, however important they might be.
Right.
Well, even some of mine went because it was thought to be boring or irrelevant, and I didn't mind that.
Wait a minute.
I was going to say that.
Well, you mentioned, obviously, the part.
Oh, I know.
I was going to say that one, if I really cared, and said, for instance, he cut something, he cut Joan Manet out completely at one point, and I said, Joan Manet played too big a part now and I used to go, he's got to be in.
And there was no, he just wouldn't argue with you at all.
So, you know, we each— So you kind of had the final say, I guess, as you should, I suppose.
Well, yeah, I mean, I could have argued about some of the things he dropped, but I, on the whole, agree with him.
I guess this, as a project, began about 1978 or 79, is that certainly an idea?
My encyclopedia here will remember—you remember the day— Well, that 78 is when you did the interview with Ruth Taylor.
But that wasn't when it really began.
And that's when you first talked to Bob and said, no, I'm not ready.
Yes, I went to Bob and thought of writing one, and then I said no.
So what was it that you felt you needed to be ready to follow up on that?
More time.
Time, or any kind of resolving any kind of conflicts with yourself?
I had to have the time, and I had to feel I was ready to write it, and I didn't.
Christopher Liebenhoff, in his review, I thought he used
And I never quote other people's reviews, but I did particularly like this phrase, is a public life recounted personally.
And I thought that was a very nice observation that he used.
And does that basically agree with what you set out to do?
I mean, acknowledging the fact that you have lived a very public life, but also you're a very private woman.
I think that's fair and nice, yeah.
I don't know that I set out to do that.
I just set out to tell my story, but certainly that's a good description.
I think what really impresses me, and I really read a lot of, I like memoirs, and it's really developed into a genre unto itself.
A lot of them coming out.
I'd say, but none of them I can think of, really.
I'd be pressed to cite any others that have done the kind of archival
I mean, usually a memoir does draw on memory, and that can have its charms, I guess.
But I think a major work like this, it is amazing to me, the interviews that you and your associates conducted and the archival research that you did.
It's really quite impressive.
I mean, it makes it a work of scholarship, I think, in addition to being a memoir.
Thank you, because we did try very hard.
The other thing besides the interviews we found was an extraordinary paper trail that helped us a lot.
of letters and memorandum that somebody had saved.
I had saved some.
My father's office saved some.
My mother saved some.
I saved my—somebody saved my letters home for the children when I was abroad.
So we had—and I made notes on a couple of occasions, like going to the ranch after the convention.
And Phil made notes on a few crucial occasions, such as right after he'd had the co-between role between Kennedy and Johnson.
The reviewer for The Globe was surprised by that, that Phil was more or less the person who brokered his getting onto the—that
I knew that.
I was in Washington in the 60s.
In fact, I had a Washington Journalism Fellowship.
I did my thesis on the Bobby Baker scandal, and I remember having known that.
It wasn't a secret, and in fact, he had given the memo to Teddy White, and Teddy White put it in the 64 book.
So it certainly wasn't a secret.
I don't think, by the way, it was very well known either, but it wasn't a secret.
That's right.
You mentioned the field work that you did, reading research and following the paper trail.
Were there any disclosures for you, anything that you learned that surprised me, that either you had forgotten or hadn't known in a fuller
I think it was more in the detail, the sequence and where we were and when things took place.
For instance, I didn't realize when Phil was down or up at the end, and of course our date diaries show that we were down at the country a lot.
I was also—well, I guess I was shocked a little bit.
at the mores of the times when I realized that we had been abroad, say, six weeks at one point, and left the children at home with a nurse and with a friend, I must say.
And my parents were there, so they weren't exactly ongoing.
But I don't think parents these days would do that.
Certainly my children wouldn't.
These are factual things, but I mean, in terms of
you know, about events or— Well, I've cited this before, but the nicest and the best surprise I think I got about an emotional relationship with my father.
We were very inarticulate and shy and adorable.
And I liked him a lot, and he liked me a lot, but we didn't talk a lot because he didn't.
quite often, we were together sort of silently.
And when I looked back at his letters, they were so loving and warm and supportive, more than I realized at the time.
And certainly more than you realized, he prepared you for the role that you ultimately assumed.
Yes, I mean, he was always talking about, if you want to be a journalist, this is what you must do or not do.
And he always assumed I would, and so did I.
I loved it.
That you'd be a journalist.
Yes.
But do you think he, in his wildest dreams, expected— Not a manager.
Not a manager, no.
I love that scene where Mrs. Pearson says, you can do it, you know.
You know, that lives in my mind, and it was so typical of— I was quoting it to my wife.
She was drawing Louisville this morning.
You see, it was very typical of Louisville, and somebody who has adored Louisville.
We all did.
And she was kind of a duenna all through that period.
She was always there, and she was always supportive, and she was always strong.
And I really loved her.
And she had been a friend, by the way, she was a very devoted wife, and to a very difficult husband, Drew Pearson.
And so she played that role, but she also led her own life.
She liked Bridge and Friends and different things.
We didn't see Drew very much.
Louvie was our friend and they are my friend.
But she had been a close friend of Sissy Patterson's.
And she said, of course you can do it.
She said, you've just been pushed down so far, you don't realize it.
And I kept telling her she didn't know how tough it was or how difficult, and that I did, and that I had to reassure her that I could not do it.
But nevertheless, she kindled a spark, I suppose.
Your accomplishment comes way ahead of, you know, I think, this great surge among women of doing things.
Were you aware, were you mindful, as this was going on, that you were making as strong a statement as you were about women and what they could do?
No, it's quite, in a way, stupid.
I wasn't.
I just saw that this was my responsibility, and I had the control of it.
So you saw it as a personal responsibility?
No.
About gender or in any way?
And I really, no.
And, of course, I was alone in many situations, in men with only men.
Not only in the paper in the company, but in board meetings, you know, of the industry boards, as I went on them.
I was the first woman on every board I ever went on.
And it never got much easier.
It was always difficult for me in a different way.
Difficult for them, too.
It was hard for them to have me in the room.
I don't know if you had a chance, I read The Globe, there's a piece on you on The Globe this morning, and there's a quote in there, and I don't think I would have asked this question, but I just find it kind of interesting, because I found the book, I don't, I personally just don't think that you wrote this book for a man, whether or not you visualized a certain reader.
No, I didn't.
You were quoted as saying, well, you hoped that you'd kind of see a woman reading the book.
Well, I just said, no.
Maybe we could clarify that a bit, or maybe could you get the statement?
I say, I hope it's for a general audience.
It certainly was intended to be.
I mean, I tell a business story, a management story, a journalistic story, a family story.
I mean, I think it's multifaceted.
But inevitably, it rings bells with women, because they relate to both my... Some of them say they went through... Even a niece of mine told somebody yesterday that she had had much the same kind of upbringing, and she now has a company she found.
And so, you know, people relate to my experience.
That's all I meant.
I think that I'm... Women do, I mean it.
That section of dealing with... It's not a section, but I think it just comes through in the writing, of just dealing with grief.
And that you can't really... You can explain how you feel, but I guess a person can't really understand it.
It's very hard.
And of course I think it's different for other people.
It's different for each individual.
But for me also, I think it's...
taking grief and transforming it into a triumph.
I mean, to me it's a very triumphant personal story.
And you also explain, you know, and I keep thinking of Queen Elizabeth I, you know, and they said, why did she never, you know, get married?
And why did you not remarry?
And I think that you said this, you had selected this role, this position, this
Maybe there wasn't room.
I mean, the physician was kind of expressing myself.
I'm dancing around the question, I think.
Well, I never got remarried.
When I went to work, I didn't think about it one way or the other.
A friend of mine, who's not right, said, you're not going to work, are you?
You're attractive, you're young, you'll get remarried.
And I said, of course I'm going to work.
And I didn't view it as an alternative to marriage, and I didn't really much think about it.
But I think it really would have made it extremely difficult, because the responsibility was so big, and I was so absorbed by it.
And I was having to learn all the time, and it was kind of an agony.
And the demands of the company
about geographically being wherever you were.
Now, these days, I think marriages are like that.
I'm sure I could have.
But I think it would have been hard at the time.
Anyway, it never occurred.
It didn't happen.
I was thinking about two different questions here at the same time.
You do talk about the great, I mean, albeit
not to any great extent, but the Janet Cooke matter, and how it was kind of a corrective, wasn't it, I think, in a way, for the triumphs of Watergate on the one hand, and then maybe... It was a terribly painful episode for everybody, and we learned from it.
Not to... that we'd been careless and not checking our credentials coming in, because they were fake.
I mean, I asked Ben Bradley this question.
I mean, you today insist on knowing who the sources are.
He probably insists today on knowing who Deep Throat is, you know, for instance.
Yes.
And I suspect you might as well.
I mean, that's a fancy question.
Would you today, if that kind of a story were to develop today?
You probably would.
Well, I wouldn't have to.
Somebody in the organization would.
And I thought Mann knew.
That's interesting.
I think he did know at some point.
He does know.
He does know, that's right.
As a matter of fact, he does.
I don't know when he learned, but at some point he learned.
Yeah, because I asked him a question, actually.
I said, would we be surprised by who, if we, and he said, I'm not going to answer that.
He said, because I would give it a little bit of a texture to it, you know, and he said that.
I know by that.
And that was a good answer, but I thought, you know, maybe I'll get a little something else.
Well, I have told people
And it's not a tremendous revelation that when I went downstairs and talked to Ben and Howard about why they thought we were being right, were we being accurate, were we being fair, were we being misled, all those questions.
He would say, well, we have Republican sources, and the boys have time to double-check, and I get two sources on most of this.
And then he said, and when Woodward's really puzzled, he has a source that he goes to, and the source has never misled him.
And I think that he said he has never misled him, is my memory.
It could be.
But I don't think it's a group of people, as so has been alleged, and I certainly don't think it's a woman.
I think it's an individual man, and that's as far as I know.
You mentioned that you, after the death of your husband, I guess initially it was to protect the company for your children, for your family.
It was.
And then we talked about how Mrs. Curtis— And I was just going to learn.
And you were going to just learn, and you loved to learn.
But I wonder at what point did you really, what was most satisfying after a point?
What did you find most satisfying about this work?
At first, I was more absorbed by editorial than by, and at the Post, although some, at Newsweek too, but at the Post.
I sort of was trying to learn about business management on both sides and at the stations, and also later to learn about how companies grew and whether we should grow, and eventually we went public.
At that time there was a man who was working with me, Frederick Beebe, who was chairman of the company.
and who had been our corporate lawyer, so he was very protective and very nice to me and very helpful, and we worked together very well.
But I think that my interests at first were certainly more editorial, because I understood it better.
And I suppose the first big move that I made, I made with Fritz and Oz Eliot and some other people, but I made it, which was to
persuade Ross and Al to bring Ben in, and that was two years later after I went to work.
And so what I'd learned in the meantime was that you couldn't just sit still and learn while other people ran things.
That at some point you had to move, that decisions came to you, and that you had to be aware of what the possibilities were.
what was happening.
And I guess I was more at home in editorial.
And you mentioned your being at home in editorial and your closeness to it, but maybe you can describe for me, is there a fine line that you feel that you have to walk very carefully, being a publisher on the one hand, and having these professional editors working on the other?
It was an easy... It's a line I still... I really haven't changed over the course of the years, but I think it was more necessary then because the fine line certainly is that the power of the publisher is to put the editors in place, the top editor.
And you have to think that he's going to improve the product and that he has the goals you have.
or she in this case now, and that your mindset is in the same general area, but that they have autonomy.
And what I always said was that, now that suited me at first because I wouldn't have been able to.
My son, who's very close to
the organization, both business and editora, knows it intimately and knows who's good, who's not, you know, he knows it, because he's come up in the organization.
I hadn't, so I couldn't have pretended to do it had I wanted to, but it was right, and I didn't ever change.
Sometimes I would ask questions about a section and say I didn't think it was very good, should we do this or that, but I described that as a constant conversation.
And in addition, I invented this rule called the no surprise rule when I hired editors and said, you know, if it was going to be any big change or big story, I wanted to be in on the takeoff as well as the landing because I was going to have to defend it.
So those were the general ground rules.
But to continue the metaphor of the airplane, the takeoff and the landing, but would you ever want to put yourself in the pilot seat to decide whether or not you're going to take off?
or fly or land?
Did they ever come to you, I guess, is what I'm asking, and say, you've got the call, we're going to do this story or we're not?
Or did you ever want that decision?
I think I participated in some of the things that I knew we were thinking of running.
I differed with them.
I mean, I have a memo traffic on to Ben, who got a hold of
It was a government report after the Detroit riots by Johnson called what?
The Kerner Commission.
And it was saying that you had to do more about poor people and cities and blacks and racial things.
And I thought it was an excellent report.
And I really wanted it to be able to be effective.
And Ben got it a day early from a source he said was independent, and he was just determined to run it a day early.
And they were hysterical.
And I really didn't see that much was to be gained by running it a day early.
And I really begged Ben not to, but he did.
I mean, that's the kind of decision that
Ben did.
Did you get some heat on that?
Oh, yeah, sure.
I mean, the administration was mad, and then they had to release it a day early on.
But, I mean, you personally got some heat on that, I suppose.
I suppose so.
Not quite as dramatic as with LBJ and the—
on the police commissioner, I suppose.
No.
But they mind it.
They mind it.
And it was a memo in the files that's really interesting and kind of persuasive in a way, from Ben to me, about why he thought it was important if you had news to publish it and that you shouldn't hold back for a day to help them.
I mean, he had his point of view, and it was a
It was a good point of view.
It's a very good memo.
It carried the day, obviously.
You see, I thought, Ben had a lot of autonomy.
There were several instances in which I either said we should be doing something we weren't doing, or were doing something the other way around.
I begged him not to make somebody national editor, which he went ahead and did.
But because Ben
We're not talking about Bagdikian here.
I had a track record.
You mentioned Bagdikian at one point.
I was wondering if that's the national letter that you're talking about, but it doesn't matter.
I'm sorry.
I'm sly.
Well, I won't say.
I really will not say anything about Ben Bagdikian, who has made a cottage industry of criticizing the post.
I'm sorry that I interrupted you.
You were saying something.
I apologize.
that Ben had a lot of autonomy, because his record was very good, and he was very good, and what he was doing was very good.
And so when he wanted, I let him do.
I mean, I thought that's the way we functioned best.
And obviously, if I thought he was messing up, we'd have parted company.
But as long as he was doing the things that needed to be doing, and the city room was working, and the paper was getting better all the time,
You know, the major things we were in absolute agreement on occasionally.
I mean, that is where editors do have autonomy, as long as they perform.
Were there qualities—I mean, hindsight is wonderful—were there qualities that you saw in Ben Bradley that were realized, obviously?
Absolutely.
I'm wondering what you saw.
What perception was there that—
Hiring somebody totally from outside is always Russian Roulette, but Ben was inside in the sense that he was at Newsweek, and in fact had been at the Post as a reporter earlier.
I didn't know him well personally.
He had a very good track record at the bureau, which he was running, the Newsweek bureau in Washington.
He had hired some excellent people.
Ward Just was one of them.
Bart Rowan, the business editor who came over and was one, and Jim Cannon, I believe.
I can't remember who was there, but a lot of really good people.
And it was a good place.
It was an exciting place.
And I knew that.
And then I had this lunch with him, and I talked about it, because he'd turned down two offers to go to Newsweek and get on the high editor ladder.
sort of sensed that he was talented enough and available enough to say to television, he was very good looking and sort of charismatic, that I better ask him what it was he did want to do.
So I had this lunch and said, since you don't want to go to New York, and I understood why he had six children, his and hers, you know.
I said, what is it you do want to do?
And of course, Ben, well, I didn't know Ben as well as I do now, that was an opening for him.
And he said this famous phrase, I'd give my left one to be managing editor of the Post as long as you're asking.
And then he never got his teeth out of my ankles.
You know, he kept bringing it up and saying, when are we going to move?
And I was very intended and grateful to the editors who were there.
I also realized that maybe something needed to be done.
But, you know, I thought, this is a pushy guy, you know, when he doesn't have the job to be pushing on me like this.
And after a while it dawned on me that maybe that was what we needed, a pushy guy.
Needed to do what?
Where did you want to take the paper to, and where was it?
Well, you see, here, too, I feel that I had to explain, because the
That paper has repeatedly been written about as having been created by Ben and me, and it's so unfair to my predecessors, because my father bought a piece of junk, which was a circulation of fifty thousand, and bankruptcy, and a beat-up building, and an AP franchise, that's what he bought.
And it was losing money, because of course he was investing a little bit, and then it started losing a million a year.
They had grown that paper.
I mean, my father, even in the face of these losses, hired people.
He made every mistake in the book in the beginning, and then he gradually got good people, and then my husband went to help him after the war, and he had seven more years of building.
And the paper had been noticed.
I mean, people had said, this is the most remarkably abrupt paper that ever it was.
I mean, that was said by some senator.
The editorial page, I believe, when did we win the Pulitzer?
Do you remember?
Several Pulitzers had been won.
By the editorial board, yeah.
And the president had mentioned it in a press conference.
He said, this editorial is so accurately what I feel that I nearly fell out of bed when I read it.
It had made a mark.
very little money to invest in it because until 54 they had none and then after they acquired the Times Herald they began to build and they were building a lot and it was a much better paper than it had been but it had a long way to go and so as we did better in business and some of that had to do with morning papers rising and evening papers having troubles as you remember at that time
And some of it was the number of relatives on the Star payroll.
They were good.
The Star was a really good paper.
It was a good paper.
Yeah.
Too many families.
My father said one of his great assets was the twenty-seven relatives on the payroll of the Star.
So, we inherited a base on which you could build.
But it was a pretty good base.
And then we had, gradually we got the financial means to grow and to get more people and to get more qualified people.
Dave Broder came and he brought Ward Just over when he came and Bart Rowan and we started to build up a business section.
I mean we started to build up everywhere, national.
And then he invented style.
But not until the Pentagon Papers did we get noticed nationally.
But clearly you had a national paper in mind, I guess.
No, I didn't.
Because, I mean, I had a better paper in mind.
But we have our economy.
We looked every way to Sunday to try to be national.
But we're not, and we're still not.
We're local.
Our economy is local.
And Congress is basically your city hall, I guess, in a way.
That's right.
I mean, we're going to be obviously reporting on national news and foreign news.
And being in Washington, we also, Phil and Otis Chandler started the news service.
And so what we wrote was going out all over the world.
But our basis is and remains a local base, because we have a big, big penetration of that market.
And we have to...
pay attention to that.
And as long as you have as much local news, sports news, features news, it would have to be stripped down and re-edited and become another paper to become a national editor.
And you can't send it around a lot because of the advertising, the local advertising.
It's too heavy.
Well, I know that we do get the Sunday Post on Sundays up here, but we have to go to Carpet Square to get it
That's a bizarre thing that I did that nobody's ever undone.
I don't know why.
I just decided, you know, we got so many complaints from Harvard that I got that thing started.
I love it, actually.
I had a book come out in 1995 that we understood there was a review coming out.
It was the first review of the book, and my wife and I drove up from the cave.
and waited, literally waited for the post to come, and I brought her back to the car, and she said, go buy two more.
I said, these are $3.50 apiece.
She says, he understands the book.
It was crazy.
How great.
We understand that impulse.
She said, go get two more.
We've done a little of that.
Briefly, because I guess you probably have a day full of...
We're all right, if you are.
I wonder if you'd just comment briefly on a couple of the NBC Dateline thing with that court decision coming down.
that investigative story regarding—are you familiar with the—is it the Red Lion?
That's ABC.
I'm sorry, I thought that was NBC.
I'm sorry, ABC.
I thought it was Dayline.
You know, I was right in the process of reading a long piece about that.
Where was it in?
I think at the Wall Street Journal, and I hadn't gotten to the end of it, so I'm not sure what I think.
That just kind of concerns me that a reporter can't do the job anymore, you know.
Well, I'm concerned both ways about that.
There is a
We don't do it.
I mean, there's a flat rule against posing as anybody else in the company.
And the editors put it there, either at Newsweek or Post or Stations.
There's something rather bothering to me in deceiving and deception.
particularly bothering to me that they had the story and they had to do the deception to get the pictures.
At least, look, I'm not a great expert.
It is kind of ironic.
It's letting the art roll the... I think that this is the case and I'm not sure.
But I think it becomes us all to support ABC because, as you say, I think it is important to be able to do investigative reporting.
I hope we can do it
And maybe in some rare case you need to deceive, I don't know.
But I think you shouldn't do it.
You shouldn't do it unless there's a lot at stake, and maybe you shouldn't do it at all.
I really have not made up my mind on the subject.
And I guess I'd love— There really are tears there, aren't there?
There's something wrong with— It's been done.
The guy is a short order cook, you know, in a place.
Does he lie about who he is?
Or, you know, if he can fry some eggs, I guess he's a short order.
I don't know.
But we'll see.
The Joe Klein affair in Primary Colors, any comments on that?
The only thing, the mistake that was made, I suppose, in retrospect, was that Maynard was caught in a difficult line.
He had promised Joe he wouldn't tell.
And I think that he should have made an exception and told Rick Smith, and they should have made the decision together.
And I think it would have been a different decision.
There was nothing wrong with writing an anonymous book.
But lying about it.
And allow a colleague at the magazine to speculate.
Yeah, I mean, to invade, to let us get in that situation.
I don't, you know, maybe it wasn't, I mean, it wasn't right.
And, I mean, I can see how it happened, but I wish it hadn't.
Did you read the novel, by the way?
Yeah.
It was funny.
I mean, did you, was it amusing, or I wonder what your reaction to it was?
I was pretty interested in,
Maybe the first half, and then I sort of got bored.
And also, I was a little bit more bored than a normal reader, because I wasn't sure who all those people were.
So you were confused by the models, shall we say.
Yeah, I was.
I didn't know the people that well, and I wasn't sure which was which.
Well, did you sense then that it was a Washington insider, as everyone had speculated at that point?
I had no idea who it was, and I was really surprised at the show.
Well, that's interesting.
I mean, he had been named as a possibility.
There was a computer analysis.
That was accurate.
That was right on the button.
And I had heard, this is, you know, because I've been interviewing authors for years, but I had heard that years ago, I heard Klein's name come up, that he actually had ghosted Barry Reed's book called The Verdict.
And I don't know if that's true or not, but I'd heard that story years ago.
And so I said, well, maybe there's a pattern here, you know.
It was funny that the post was the one to reveal that it was joking.
Well, I liked how they did it.
They actually got some... I have the book, so I'm not asking you questions about, you know, material that you've written so eloquently about.
It seems that we're not questioning you about the book.
I have the book.
Well, that's nice.
Which I always find.
And I just wonder, in fact, if you'd do me the honor of inscribing it.
I'd love to.
I think that's funny.
Did you have a bio thing that you were going to do?
I did.
Is this it for the memoirs?
Do you expect any?
Would you be writing anything else, do you think?
No.
I think I shot it.